hi everyone welcome to signals and systems course
in this video I am going to explain some important signal transformations that involve simple modifications of the independent variable
an important example of transforming the independent variable of a signal is a time shift
note that the independent variable is t in continuous time signals and n in discrete time signals
this figure shows a discrete time signal and its shifted version
here two signals are identical in shape but shifted relative to each other
if n zero is greater than zero
the signal shifts to the right and the shifted signal is said to be the delayed version of the original signal
if n zero is less than zero
the signal shifts to the left and the shifted signal is said to be the advanced version of the original signal
the same principles apply while shifting a continuous time signal
in the figure a continuous time signal and its shifted version are shown
a second basic transformation of the time axis is the time reversal
the reversed signal is obtained from the original signal by a reflection around n equals zero
time reversal on a discrete time signal is shown in the figure
for a continuous time signal the reversed signal is obtained from the original signal by a reflection around t equals zero
the figure shows the original signal x of t and its reflection around t equals zero
if x of t represents audio tape recording then its reflection is the same tape recording played backward
another transformation is the time scale
this figure shows three signals that are related by linear scale change in the independent variable
if we think of x of t as a tape recording then x of two t is the same recording played twice speed of the original recording
and x  of t over two is also the same recording played at half speed of the original recording
assume that x of t is the original signal and it is transformed to another signal as x of alpha t plus beta
depending on the values of alpha and beta the original signal goes through several transformations
for instance the signal is stretched if the absolute value of alpha is less than one
if it is larger than one the signal is compressed
the signal is reversed in time if alpha is negative
and it is shifted in time if beta is not equal to zero
if there is more than one transformation
the systematic approach is to delay or advance the signal in accordance with the value of beta first and than do the time scaling and reversal
the plot on the right hand side shows the original signal x of t and the plots on the left hand side show various transformations
the first transformation is the time shift where the original signal is advanced by one unit
in other words it is shifted to left
the second one is the time reversed version of x of t plus one
the third one is the time scaled version of the original signal
here the original signal is compressed by a factor of two over three
and the last one is the time scaled version of of x of t plus one
an important class of signals that we are going to use in this course is the periodic signals
periodic continuous time and discrete time signals hold the given property
in words a periodic signal has the property that it is unchanged by a time shift of t for continuous time signals
and by a time shift of n for discrete time signals
fundamental period is the smallest positive value of t or n for which the given equality holds
here examples of continuous and discrete time signals are given
fundamental period of the continuous time signal is t and fundamental period of the discrete time signal is three
the property of being even or odd relates to the symmetry of signals under time reversal
a signal is referred to as an even signal if it is identical to its time reversed counterpart
a signal is referred to as an odd signal if it holds the given equality on the right hand side
an odd signal must necessarily be zero at t or n equals zero
examples of even and odd signals are given here
in this video I first explained some important transformations of the independent variable such as time shift time reversal and time scaling
these transformations will be useful in analyzing the properties of systems
I also explained some important class of signals such as periodic signals and even and odd signals
let me know if you have any question
thank you